# Part-Of-Speech-Ambiguity-and-Unknown-Word-Guessing-with-Different-ML-Techniques-in-Comparison

Different approaches of assigning a specific part-of-speech (POS) tag to each corresponding word of a natural language sentence have been tried and developed over the years. It is a fact, that the accuracy of part-of-speech tagging for highly ambiguous words and so called ’unknown’ words, which are words, probably not learned directly from a corpus, is substantially lower than that for known words. Such ambiguous and unknown words account for a non-negligible portion of the tagging errors we get when trying to tag a text or sentence. In this paper we present a comparison of some of the different approaches of part-of-speech tagging for English and evaluate their performance on two small sets of sentences. We compared several statistical taggers and machine learning machanisms like different n-gram taggers, the ’Brill Tagger’, a classifier-based tagger, a perceptron tagger and the predictions from a Support Vector Machine as a tagger, to tag our test sets. To improve our scores, we also tried out to influence our scores by different sizes of training corpora as well as different tagsets to see how the different tagger improve with a change of one of those factors when they encounter the ambiguous or unknown words. We found out that even some small changes in the setup can improve the tagging evaluation scores. In the end, we found out that the best performance was done by the Perceptron tagger which scored an accuracy of 89% and a F1 -score of 90% for the ’ambiguous words’ and 92% and 93% for the ’unknown words, respectively’.
